# VM Lifecycle

The following diagram shows the states that a VM can be in
and the API calls that can be used to move the VM between these states.

![VM lifecycle](vm-lifecycle.png "VM Lifecycle")

## VM boot parameters

The `VM` class contains a number of fields that control the way in which the VM
is booted. With reference to the fields defined in the VM class (see later in
this document), this section outlines the boot options available and the
mechanisms provided for controlling them.

VM booting is controlled by setting one of the two mutually exclusive groups:
"PV" and "HVM".  If `HVM.boot_policy` is an empty string, then paravirtual
domain building and booting will be used; otherwise the VM will be loaded as a
HVM domain, and booted using an emulated BIOS.

When paravirtual booting is in use, the `PV_bootloader` field indicates the
bootloader to use.  It may be "pygrub", in which case the platform's default
installation of pygrub will be used, or a full path within the control domain to
some other bootloader.  The other fields, `PV_kernel`, `PV_ramdisk`, `PV_args`,
and `PV_bootloader_args` will be passed to the bootloader unmodified, and
interpretation of those fields is then specific to the bootloader itself,
including the possibility that the bootloader will ignore some or all of
those given values. Finally the paths of all bootable disks are added to the
bootloader commandline (a disk is bootable if its VBD has the bootable flag set).
There may be zero, one, or many bootable disks; the bootloader decides which
disk (if any) to boot from.

If the bootloader is pygrub, then the menu.lst is parsed, if present in the
guest's filesystem, otherwise the specified kernel and ramdisk are used, or an
autodetected kernel is used if nothing is specified and autodetection is
possible. `PV_args` is appended to the kernel command line, no matter which
mechanism is used for finding the kernel.

If `PV_bootloader` is empty but `PV_kernel` is specified, then the kernel and
ramdisk values will be treated as paths within the control domain. If both
`PV_bootloader` and `PV_kernel` are empty, then the behaviour is as if
`PV_bootloader` were specified as "pygrub".

When using HVM booting, `HVM_boot_policy` and `HVM_boot_params` specify the boot
handling.  Only one policy is currently defined, "BIOS order".  In this case,
`HVM_boot_params` should contain one key-value pair "order" = "N" where N is the
string that will be passed to QEMU.
